
% The entry below contains non-ASCII chars that could not be converted
% to a LaTeX equivalent.
@ARTICLE{Macgregor2019-mo,
  title     = "Construction, validation, and application of nocturnal pollen
               transport networks in an agro‐ecosystem: a comparison using
               light microscopy and {DNA} metabarcoding",
  author    = "Macgregor, Callum J and Kitson, James J N and Fox, Richard and
               Hahn, Christoph and Lunt, David H and Pocock, Michael J O and
               Evans, Darren M",
  abstract  = "1. Moths are globally relevant as pollinators but nocturnal
               pollination remains poorly understood. Plant--pollinator
               interaction networks are traditionally constructed using either
               flower‐visitor observations or pollen‐transport detection using
               microscopy. Recent studies …",
  journal   = "Ecol. Entomol.",
  publisher = "Wiley Online Library",
  volume    =  44,
  number    =  1,
  pages     = "17--29",
  year      =  2019
}

@ARTICLE{Kitson2018-ey,
  title     = "Community assembly and diversification in a species-rich
               radiation of island weevils (Coleoptera: Cratopini)",
  author    = "Kitson, James J N and Warren, Ben H and Th{\'e}baud, Christophe
               and Strasberg, Dominique and Emerson, Brent C",
  abstract  = "Abstract Aim To test a prediction derived from island
               biogeographical theory that in situ speciation should make an
               increasingly important contribution to community assembly as
               islands age. This prediction is tested on estimated
               biogeographical histories from Mauritius (approximately 9 Myr)
               and Reunion (approximately 5 Myr). We additionally investigate
               the evolutionary dynamics of insect flight loss, as the loss of
               flight in island lineages can influence patterns of
               diversification. Location Mascarene Islands; Southwest Indian
               Ocean. Taxon Weevils. Methods Up to five individuals of each
               taxonomically described species sampled within each sampling
               site were sequenced for the mitochondrial gene Cytochrome
               Oxidase II to delimit operational taxonomic units (OTUs). OTUs
               were further sequenced for the nuclear genes Arginine Kinase,
               Histone 3 and ribosomal 28s, to reconstruct the phylogenetic
               history of the group. Timings of colonization and in situ
               speciation events were estimated with beast2. Results Our
               results support the hypothesis that present-day species richness
               on the older island of Mauritius is largely the result of in
               situ speciation, with few colonization events, of which all but
               the most basal are recent. In contrast, Reunion presents a more
               uniform temporal spectrum of colonization times. Flight loss has
               evolved convergently at least five times, and speciation events
               associated with flight loss are significantly younger than
               speciation events that have not resulted in flight loss. Main
               conclusions Patterns of community assembly on the islands of
               Mauritius and Reunion fit a model where the addition of new
               species and species turnover is increasingly dominated by in
               situ speciation as an island community matures. Repeated flight
               loss indicates selection for flightlessness, with the young age
               of flightless lineages suggesting higher extinction rates over
               longer evolutionary time-scales and little influence on
               present-day species richness.",
  journal   = "J. Biogeogr.",
  publisher = "Wiley Online Library",
  volume    =  45,
  number    =  9,
  pages     = "2016--2026",
  month     =  sep,
  year      =  2018
}

@ARTICLE{Derocles2018-sw,
  title     = "Chapter One - Biomonitoring for the 21st Century: Integrating
               {Next-Generation} Sequencing Into Ecological Network Analysis",
  author    = "Derocles, St{\'e}phane A P and Bohan, David A and Dumbrell, Alex
               J and Kitson, James J N and Massol, Fran{\c c}ois and Pauvert,
               Charlie and Plantegenest, Manuel and Vacher, Corinne and Evans,
               Darren M",
  editor    = "Bohan, David A and Dumbrell, Alex J and Woodward, Guy and
               Jackson, Michelle",
  abstract  = "Ecological network analysis (ENA) provides a mechanistic
               framework for describing complex species interactions,
               quantifying ecosystem services, and examining the impacts of
               environmental change on ecosystems. In this chapter, we
               highlight the importance and potential of ENA in future
               biomonitoring programs, as current biomonitoring indicators
               (e.g. species richness, population abundances of targeted
               species) are mostly descriptive and unable to characterize the
               mechanisms that underpin ecosystem functioning. Measuring the
               robustness of multilayer networks in the long term is one way of
               integrating ecological metrics more generally into biomonitoring
               schemes to better measure biodiversity and ecosystem
               functioning. Ecological networks are nevertheless difficult and
               labour-intensive to construct using conventional approaches,
               especially when building multilayer networks in poorly studied
               ecosystems (i.e. many tropical regions). Next-generation
               sequencing (NGS) provides unprecedented opportunities to rapidly
               build highly resolved species interaction networks across
               multiple trophic levels, but are yet to be fully exploited. We
               highlight the impediments to ecologists wishing to build
               DNA-based ecological networks and discuss some possible
               solutions. Machine learning and better data sharing between
               ecologists represent very important areas for advances in
               NGS-based networks. The future of network ecology is very
               exciting as all the tools necessary to build highly resolved
               multilayer networks are now within ecologists reach.",
  publisher = "Academic Press",
  volume    =  58,
  pages     = "1--62",
  month     =  jan,
  year      =  2018,
  keywords  = "Ecological network; Food web; Next-generation sequencing;
               Molecular approach; Metabarcoding; Machine learning; Ecosystem
               services; Environmental changes; Robustness; Biomonitoring"
}

@ARTICLE{Kitson2019-rl,
  title    = "Detecting host-parasitoid interactions in an invasive
              Lepidopteran using nested tagging {DNA} metabarcoding",
  author   = "Kitson, James J N and Hahn, Christoph and Sands, Richard J and
              Straw, Nigel A and Evans, Darren M and Lunt, David H",
  abstract = "Determining the host-parasitoid interactions and parasitism rates
              for invasive species entering novel environments is an important
              first step in assessing potential routes for biocontrol and
              integrated pest management. Conventional insect rearing
              techniques followed by taxonomic identification are widely used
              to obtain such data, but this can be time-consuming and prone to
              biases. Here, we present a next-generation sequencing approach
              for use in ecological studies which allows for individual-level
              metadata tracking of large numbers of invertebrate samples
              through the use of hierarchically organised molecular
              identification tags. We demonstrate its utility using a sample
              data set examining both species identity and levels of parasitism
              in late larval stages of the oak processionary moth (Thaumetopoea
              processionea-Linn. 1758), an invasive species recently
              established in the United Kingdom. Overall, we find that there
              are two main species exploiting the late larval stages of oak
              processionary moth in the United Kingdom with the main parasitoid
              (Carcelia iliaca-Ratzeburg, 1840) parasitising 45.7\% of
              caterpillars, while a rare secondary parasitoid (Compsilura
              concinnata-Meigen, 1824) was also detected in 0.4\% of
              caterpillars. Using this approach on all life stages of the oak
              processionary moth may demonstrate additional parasitoid
              diversity. We discuss the wider potential of nested tagging DNA
              metabarcoding for constructing large, highly resolved species
              interaction networks.",
  journal  = "Mol. Ecol.",
  volume   =  28,
  number   =  2,
  pages    = "471--483",
  month    =  jan,
  year     =  2019,
  keywords = "biocontrol; invasive species; nested tagging; parasitism; species
              interactions",
  language = "en"
}

@ARTICLE{Evans2016-fn,
  title    = "Merging {DNA} metabarcoding and ecological network analysis to
              understand and build resilient terrestrial ecosystems",
  author   = "Evans, Darren M and Kitson, James J N and Lunt, David H and
              Straw, Nigel A and Pocock, Michael J O",
  abstract = "* Significant advances in both mathematical and molecular
              approaches in ecology offer unprecedented opportunities to
              describe and understand ecosystem functioning. Ecological
              networks describe interactions between species, the underlying
              structure of communities and the function and stability of
              ecosystems. They provide the ability to assess the robustness of
              complex ecological communities to species loss, as well as a
              novel way of guiding restoration. However, empirically
              quantifying the interactions between entire communities remains a
              significant challenge. * Concomitantly, advances in DNA
              sequencing technologies are resolving previously intractable
              questions in functional and taxonomic biodiversity and provide
              enormous potential to determine hitherto difficult to observe
              species interactions. Combining DNA metabarcoding approaches with
              ecological network analysis presents important new opportunities
              for understanding large-scale ecological and evolutionary
              processes, as well as providing powerful tools for building
              ecosystems that are resilient to environmental change. * We
              propose a novel `nested tagging' metabarcoding approach for the
              rapid construction of large, phylogenetically structured
              species-interaction networks. Taking tree--insect--parasitoid
              ecological networks as an illustration, we show how measures of
              network robustness, constructed using DNA metabarcoding, can be
              used to determine the consequences of tree species loss within
              forests, and forest habitat loss within wider landscapes. By
              determining which species and habitats are important to network
              integrity, we propose new directions for forest management. *
              Merging metabarcoding with ecological network analysis provides a
              revolutionary opportunity to construct some of the largest,
              phylogenetically structured species-interaction networks to date,
              providing new ways to: (i) monitor biodiversity and ecosystem
              functioning; (ii) assess the robustness of interacting
              communities to species loss; and (iii) build ecosystems that are
              more resilient to environmental change. A lay summary is
              available for this article.",
  journal  = "Funct. Ecol.",
  volume   =  30,
  number   =  12,
  pages    = "1904--1916",
  month    =  dec,
  year     =  2016,
  keywords = "food webs; forestry; host--parasitoid interactions; invasive
              species; next-generation sequencing"
}

@ARTICLE{Sands2015-ce,
  title    = "\textit{Carcelia Iliaca} (Diptera: Tachinidae), a specific
              parasitoid of the Oak Processionary Moth (Lepidoptera:
              Thaumetopoeidae), new to Great Britain",
  author   = "Sands, Richard J and Jonusas, Gillian and Straw, Nigel A and
              Kitson, James J N and Raper, Chris M",
  abstract = "Carcelia iliaca (Ratzeburg) is added to the British list based on
              a specimen collected from Richmond Park in Surrey. Morphological
              features distinguishing C. iliaca from other tachinid species are
              presented, along with notes on its known distribution and
              biology. The Cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX1) DNA sequence
              unique to C. iliaca was characterised to provide a specific
              molecular tool for future identification.",
  journal  = "Br. J. Entomol. Nat. Hist.",
  volume   =  28,
  number   =  4,
  pages    = "225--227",
  year     =  2015
}

@ARTICLE{Lumley2015-ot,
  title    = "Sexual selection protects against extinction",
  author   = "Lumley, Alyson J and Michalczyk, {\L}ukasz and Kitson, James J N
              and Spurgin, Lewis G and Morrison, Catriona A and Godwin, Joanne
              L and Dickinson, Matthew E and Martin, Oliver Y and Emerson,
              Brent C and Chapman, Tracey and Gage, Matthew J G",
  abstract = "Reproduction through sex carries substantial costs, mainly
              because only half of sexual adults produce offspring. It has been
              theorized that these costs could be countered if sex allows
              sexual selection to clear the universal fitness constraint of
              mutation load. Under sexual selection, competition between
              (usually) males and mate choice by (usually) females create
              important intraspecific filters for reproductive success, so that
              only a subset of males gains paternity. If reproductive success
              under sexual selection is dependent on individual condition,
              which is contingent to mutation load, then sexually selected
              filtering through 'genic capture' could offset the costs of sex
              because it provides genetic benefits to populations. Here we test
              this theory experimentally by comparing whether populations with
              histories of strong versus weak sexual selection purge mutation
              load and resist extinction differently. After evolving replicate
              populations of the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum for 6 to 7
              years under conditions that differed solely in the strengths of
              sexual selection, we revealed mutation load using inbreeding.
              Lineages from populations that had previously experienced strong
              sexual selection were resilient to extinction and maintained
              fitness under inbreeding, with some families continuing to
              survive after 20 generations of sib $\times$ sib mating. By
              contrast, lineages derived from populations that experienced weak
              or non-existent sexual selection showed rapid fitness declines
              under inbreeding, and all were extinct after generation 10.
              Multiple mutations across the genome with individually small
              effects can be difficult to clear, yet sum to a significant
              fitness load; our findings reveal that sexual selection reduces
              this load, improving population viability in the face of genetic
              stress.",
  journal  = "Nature",
  volume   =  522,
  number   =  7557,
  pages    = "470--473",
  month    =  jun,
  year     =  2015
}

@ARTICLE{Kitson2013-oz,
  title    = "Molecular characterization of trophic ecology within an island
              radiation of insect herbivores (Curculionidae: Entiminae:
              Cratopus)",
  author   = "Kitson, James J N and Warren, Ben H and Florens, F B Vincent and
              Baider, Claudia and Strasberg, Dominique and Emerson, Brent C",
  abstract = "The phytophagous beetle family Curculionidae is the most
              species-rich insect family known, with much of this diversity
              having been attributed to both co-evolution with food plants and
              host shifts at key points within the early evolutionary history
              of the group. Less well understood is the extent to which
              patterns of host use vary within or among related species,
              largely because of the technical difficulties associated with
              quantifying this. Here we develop a recently characterized
              molecular approach to quantify diet within and between two
              closely related species of weevil occurring primarily within dry
              forests on the island of Mauritius. Our aim is to quantify
              dietary variation across populations and assess adaptive and
              nonadaptive explanations for this and to characterize the nature
              of a trophic shift within an ecologically distinct population
              within one of the species. We find that our study species are
              polyphagous, consuming a much wider range of plants than would be
              suggested by the literature. Our data suggest that local diet
              variation is largely explained by food availability, and locally
              specialist populations consume food plants that are not
              phylogenetically novel, but do appear to represent a novel
              preference. Our results demonstrate the power of molecular
              methods to unambiguously quantify dietary variation across
              populations of insect herbivores, providing a valuable approach
              to understanding trophic interactions within and among local
              plant and insect herbivore communities.",
  journal  = "Mol. Ecol.",
  volume   =  22,
  number   =  21,
  pages    = "5441--5455",
  month    =  sep,
  year     =  2013,
  keywords = "chloroplast; insect; plant; trophic ecology; weevil"
}
